README.md, before:

# ansible-role-percona
Ansible playbook to install, configure, monitor percona MySQL on RHEL/CentOS servers.

note: install percona MySQL in linux generic way.

## Requirements

pre_packages:
```
  - openssl098e.x86_64
  - perl-DBD-MySQL.x86_64
  - perl-DBI.x86_64
  - perl-Time-HiRes.x86_64
  - perl-TermReadKey.x86_64
  - MySQL-python.x86_64
  - numactl.x86_64
```

## Structure after installed

```
/web/mysql/node3303/
├── data
│   ├── ibdata1
│   ├── ib_logfile0
│   ├── ib_logfile1
│   ├── ib_lru_dump
│   ├── mysql
│   ├── mysql-bin.000001
│   ├── mysql-bin.000002
│   ├── mysql-bin.000003
│   ├── mysql-bin.index
│   ├── mysql.pid
│   ├── performance_schema
│   ├── query.log
│   ├── s3303
│   ├── slow-query.log
│   └── test
├── my
├── my.node.cnf
├── node
├── noderc
├── README.txt
├── start
├── status
├── stop
└── use
```

/web/mysql: mysql instance dir.
nodexxxx:   node name with port number.
data:       mysql data dir.
s3303:      mysql socket file.

mysql manage tool:
```
  - README.txt
  - my
  - node
  - noderc
  - start  # start mysql instance
  - status # check status instance
  - stop   # stop mysql instance
  - use    # login mysql instance
```

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, almost with default values (see defaults/main.yml):

``percona_binary``
Generic binary file path, such as "/root/Percona-Server-5.5.36-rel34.1-642.Linux.x86_64.tar.gz", 
see test/test.yml, if not exists mysql_basedir, ansible will extra binary file.

``percona_ver``
Specify percona MySQL version to identify different MySQL Server, and configure with matched 
percona variables.

``mysql_numa``
Whether enable numa feature or not, if yes, numactl shoule be installed.

``mysql_malloclib``
Configures libjemalloc if mysql_malloclib is yes.

``mysql_basedir``
MySQL base dir.

``mysql_node``
Multi mysql instance dir, one instance matched nodexxxx dir.

``netaddress``
Specify the network card to get the ip address, and calculate MySQL server id.

```
mysql_replication_role
mysql_replication_user
```
Setup the MySQL replication, the role is master or slave.

```
git_url
monitor_user
monitor_host
```
monitor mysql with zabbix and create monitor user.

```
mysql_root_username
mysql_root_password
mysql_run_user
```
The MySQL root user account name and password. run_user specify the user who run mysql process.

```
mysql_port
mysql_bind_address
mysql_node
mysql_nodedir
mysql_datadir
mysql_pid_file
mysql_socket
mysql_character_set
mysql_general_ci
```
MySQL connection settings.

```
mysql_slow_query_log_enabled: yes
mysql_slow_query_log_file: "slow-query.log"
mysql_slow_query_time: 1
```
Slow query log settings.

```
mysql_key_buffer_size: "64M"
mysql_max_allowed_packet: "32M"
mysql_table_open_cache: "1024"
mysql_sort_buffer_size: "2M"
mysql_read_buffer_size: "2M"
mysql_join_buffer_size: "2M"
mysql_read_rnd_buffer_size: "4M"
mysql_myisam_sort_buffer_size: "32M"
mysql_thread_cache_size: "64"
mysql_query_cache_size: "16M"
mysql_max_connections: 3000
mysql_max_connect_errors: 100000
```
MySQL's memory usage settings.

```
mysql_innodb_file_per_table: "1"
mysql_innodb_buffer_pool_size: "12228M"
mysql_innodb_additional_mem_pool_size: "20M"
mysql_innodb_log_file_size: "256M"
mysql_innodb_log_buffer_size: "16M"
mysql_innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit: "2"
mysql_default_storage_engine: "innodb"
mysql_innodb_lock_wait_timeout: 50
mysql_innodb_read_io_threads: 8
mysql_innodb_write_io_threads: 8
```
MySQL innodb setttings.

# Example Playbook

see tests/single_test.yml
```
---
- hosts: cz-test2
  remote_user: root
  vars:
     percona_binary: "/root/Percona-Server-5.5.47-rel37.7-Linux.x86_64.ssl098e.tar.gz"
     percona_ver: 55
     mysql_numa: yes
     mysql_malloclib: yes
     mysql_port: 3308
     mysql_basedir: "/opt/Percona-Server-5.5.47-rel37.7-Linux.x86_64.ssl098e"
     mysql_node: "/web/mysql"
     netaddress: "{{ ansible_eth0.ipv4.address }}"
     monitor_user: "monitor"
     monitor_host: "{{ netaddress | regex_replace('.\\d+$','.%') }}"
     mysql_replication_role: 'master'
     mysql_replication_user: {
                   name: 'user_replica',
                   host: "{{ monitor_host }}",
                   password: 'replicate_pass',
                   priv: '*.*:REPLICATION SLAVE',
                }
     git_url: 'https://github.com/chenzhe07/zabbix_mysql.git'
  roles:
     - ansible-role-percona
```

run with:
`ansible-playbook --verbose -i tests/inventory ansible-role-percona/tests/single_test.yml`

# License

MIT / BSD

Commit message:

add detailed info for pre package install

README.md, after:

# ansible-role-percona
Ansible playbook to install, configure, monitor percona MySQL on RHEL/CentOS servers.

###note: install percona MySQL in linux generic way.

## Requirements

pre_packages:
```
  - openssl098e.x86_64
  - perl-DBD-MySQL.x86_64
  - perl-DBI.x86_64
  - perl-Time-HiRes.x86_64
  - perl-TermReadKey.x86_64
  - MySQL-python.x86_64
  - numactl.x86_64
```
The perl package ensure that percona toolkit and percona-xtrabackup can be use;
if percona Server support numa features, numactl shuld be installed. if you 
want manage MySQL with ansible, MySQL-python shuld be installed.

## Structure after installed
```
/web/mysql/node3303/
├── data
│   ├── ibdata1
│   ├── ib_logfile0
│   ├── ib_logfile1
│   ├── ib_lru_dump
│   ├── mysql
│   ├── mysql-bin.000001
│   ├── mysql-bin.000002
│   ├── mysql-bin.000003
│   ├── mysql-bin.index
│   ├── mysql.pid
│   ├── performance_schema
│   ├── query.log
│   ├── s3303
│   ├── slow-query.log
│   └── test
├── my
├── my.node.cnf
├── node
├── noderc
├── README.txt
├── start
├── status
├── stop
└── use
```
/web/mysql: mysql instance dir.
nodexxxx:   node name with port number.
data:       mysql data dir.
s3303:      mysql socket file.

mysql manage tool:
```
  - README.txt
  - my
  - node
  - noderc
  - start  # start mysql instance
  - status # check status instance
  - stop   # stop mysql instance
  - use    # login mysql instance
```

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, almost with default values (see defaults/main.yml):

``
percona_binary
``
Generic binary file path, such as "/root/Percona-Server-5.5.36-rel34.1-642.Linux.x86_64.tar.gz", 
see test/test.yml, if not exists mysql_basedir, ansible will extra binary file.

``
percona_ver
``
Specify percona MySQL version to identify different MySQL Server, and configure with matched 
percona variables.

``
mysql_numa
``
Whether enable numa feature or not, if yes, numactl shoule be installed.

``
mysql_malloclib
``
Configures libjemalloc if mysql_malloclib is yes.

``
mysql_basedir
``
MySQL base dir.

``
mysql_node
``
Multi mysql instance dir, one instance matched nodexxxx dir.

``
netaddress
``
Specify the network card to get the ip address, and calculate MySQL server id.

```
mysql_replication_role
mysql_replication_user
```
Setup the MySQL replication, the role is master or slave.

```
git_url
monitor_user
monitor_host
```
monitor mysql with zabbix and create monitor user.

```
mysql_root_username
mysql_root_password
mysql_run_user
```
The MySQL root user account name and password. run_user specify the user who run mysql process.

```
mysql_port
mysql_bind_address
mysql_node
mysql_nodedir
mysql_datadir
mysql_pid_file
mysql_socket
mysql_character_set
mysql_general_ci
```
MySQL connection settings.

```
mysql_slow_query_log_enabled: yes
mysql_slow_query_log_file: "slow-query.log"
mysql_slow_query_time: 1
```
Slow query log settings.

```
mysql_key_buffer_size: "64M"
mysql_max_allowed_packet: "32M"
mysql_table_open_cache: "1024"
mysql_sort_buffer_size: "2M"
mysql_read_buffer_size: "2M"
mysql_join_buffer_size: "2M"
mysql_read_rnd_buffer_size: "4M"
mysql_myisam_sort_buffer_size: "32M"
mysql_thread_cache_size: "64"
mysql_query_cache_size: "16M"
mysql_max_connections: 3000
mysql_max_connect_errors: 100000
```
MySQL's memory usage settings.

```
mysql_innodb_file_per_table: "1"
mysql_innodb_buffer_pool_size: "12228M"
mysql_innodb_additional_mem_pool_size: "20M"
mysql_innodb_log_file_size: "256M"
mysql_innodb_log_buffer_size: "16M"
mysql_innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit: "2"
mysql_default_storage_engine: "innodb"
mysql_innodb_lock_wait_timeout: 50
mysql_innodb_read_io_threads: 8
mysql_innodb_write_io_threads: 8
```
MySQL innodb setttings.

# Example Playbook

see tests/single_test.yml
```
---
- hosts: cz-test2
  remote_user: root
  vars:
     percona_binary: "/root/Percona-Server-5.5.47-rel37.7-Linux.x86_64.ssl098e.tar.gz"
     percona_ver: 55
     mysql_numa: yes
     mysql_malloclib: yes
     mysql_port: 3308
     mysql_basedir: "/opt/Percona-Server-5.5.47-rel37.7-Linux.x86_64.ssl098e"
     mysql_node: "/web/mysql"
     netaddress: "{{ ansible_eth0.ipv4.address }}"
     monitor_user: "monitor"
     monitor_host: "{{ netaddress | regex_replace('.\\d+$','.%') }}"
     mysql_replication_role: 'master'
     mysql_replication_user: {
                   name: 'user_replica',
                   host: "{{ monitor_host }}",
                   password: 'replicate_pass',
                   priv: '*.*:REPLICATION SLAVE',
                }
     git_url: 'https://github.com/chenzhe07/zabbix_mysql.git'
  roles:
     - ansible-role-percona
```

run with:
`ansible-playbook --verbose -i tests/inventory ansible-role-percona/tests/single_test.yml`

# License

MIT / BSD
